
                           Talker version 1.1
                    Copyright (C) 1994 by LoutSoft.

   It all started when I copied several text book files. But I didn't want
to print them - the printer was precious, and ribbons weren't in abundance.
Reading from the screen made my eyes hurt. So I decided to completely automate
the process - let the computer do the reading. My program that used the
SPEECH.COM utility didn't satisfy me, because Speech had no Russian sounds,
let alone soft ones (so it sounded something like "dyevushka, dyevushka"),
and the pronunciation was terrible. My program that launched SPP.EXE, passing
the next line of the file as a parameter, also didn't please me - SPP required
at least a 286 to listen properly; plus it thrashed the hard drive (and was
especially slow on a floppy drive).
   I immediately apologize for the quality - I wasn't aiming for SB Pro or
ADLIB board or even a PC speaker synthesizer, but used a homemade board based
on 140UD6A, using only 2 digital channels. But even so, it turned out pretty
good.
   I intended to read files in Russian, so I don't recommend learning English
pronunciation with this program - I only added English word reading to handle
individual words encountered in the text (file names, terms, etc.). I might
have included only one-hundredth of all English pronunciation rules. Words are
read letter by letter, and numbers up to 1000 are read fully, so I don't even
recognize my own voice, deadened by the computer, except perhaps for the numbers.
   The program can output to any DAC, PC Speaker, and Lexand TS2400 modem,
but the quality is worse on the speaker and modem.
   The following command-line switches are used at startup:
   (without switches, help is displayed)

   talker {/B|/Pnnnn|/M} filename|"message"

   /B output to PC Speaker
   /M output to Lexand TS2400 modem
   /P output to passive DAC on port nnnn, where nnnn is specified as a
decimal(!) number.
   By default, COVOX on LPT1 is used (port 378H, 888D).

   filename - name of the file to be read
   message  - message to be spoken (must be enclosed in quotes)

   While reading a file, the program responds to keys as follows:
   S - stop reading and exit to DOS
   P - pause until any key is pressed
   + - faster (you can reach the computer's speed limit - output will become
       slower)
   - - slower
   T - turn voice on/off - for example, if you need to skip a page or two

   Examples:
     talker readme     -  read file on COVOX1
     talker /B "You have a voice like hair in the ass - thin and not clear"
                       - output message to speaker

   The file talker.voi contains all the sounds; the program won't work without it.

   Version 1.1:
   Discovered that on AT computers, bit 6 of port 62h doesn't receive the
signal from channel 2 of the 8254 timer, which I used for pauses - causing the
program to hang. In this version, I've changed the algorithm.

   Write letters to Lout Roma at Sciens&Business BBS (277-53-67).
